We saw that for classification, because
there were some scenarios like medical
diagnostics predictions or
costumer facing web site features,
where the consequences of false positive
were very different than false negatives.
It made sense to distinguish these types
of errors and do a more detailed analysis.
In evaluating classifiers for
example we looked at plots like precision
recall curves that could show the trade
offs a classifier could achieve between
making errors of those two types.
In theory, we could apply the same
type of error analysis and
more detailed evaluation to regression
that we applied for classification.
For example, we could analyze
the regression model's predictions, and
categorize errors of one type.
Where the regression model's
predicted value was much larger
than the target value.
Compared to a second error type,
where the predicted value was much
smaller than the target value.
In practice though it turns out that for
most applications of regression,
distinguishing between these types of
different errors is not as important.
This simplifies evaluation for
regression quite a bit.
In most cases, the default r squared
score that's available for regression and
psychic learn and that summarizes how
well future instances will be predicted.
It's adequate for most tasks.
As a reminder, the r2_score for
perfect predictor is 1.0.
And for a predictor that always output the
same constant value, the r2_score is 0.0.
The r2_score despite the squared
in the name that suggests
it's always positive does have
the potential to go negative for
bad model fits, such as when fitting
non-linear functions to data.
There are a few alternative
regression devaluation metrics
you should be aware of that work
differently than the r2_score.
Mean absolute error takes the mean
absolute difference between the target and
predicted values.
In machine running terms this corresponds
to the expected value of L1 norm laws.
This is sometimes used for
example to asses focused outcomes for
regression in time series analysis.
Mean squared error takes the mean squared
difference between the target and
predicted values and this corresponds to
the expected value of the L2 norm loss.
This is widely used for
many regression problems and
larger errors have correspondingly larger
squared contributions to the mean error.
Like mean absolute error, mean squared
error doesn't distinguish between over and
under estimates.
Finally one situation that
does arise quite often,
is the existence of outliers in the data,
which can have unwanted influence on the
overall r squared or mean squared value.
So in those cases,
when ignoring outlier is important,
you can use the mean_absolute_error score,
which is robust with the presence of
outliers because it uses the median of the
error distribution rather than the mean.
We saw how using how dummy
classifiers could give us simple but
useful baselines to compared against
when evaluating a classifier.
The same functionality exist for
regression.
There's a dummy regressor class
that provides predictions
using simple strategies that
do not look at the input data.
This example which is available as
the regression example from this lecture's
notebook shows a scatter plot using
database on a single input variable,
which is plotted along the x
axis from the diabetes data set.
The points are the data instances
from the test split and
form a cloud that looks like it may
trend down slightly to the right.
The green line, which is also labeled
fitted model is the default linear
regression that was fit
to the training points.
We can see that it’s not a particularly
strong fit to the test data.
The red line labeled dummy mean,
shows a linear model
that uses the strategy of always
predicting the mean of the training data.
So this is an example
of a dummy regressor.
You can look at the notebook to see
that a dummy regressor is created and
used just like a regular regression model.
You create, fit with the training data,
and then call predict on the test data.
Although again, like the dummy classifier
you should not use the dummy regressor for
actual problems.
Its only use is to provide a baseline for
comparison.
Looking at the regression metrics output
from the linear model compared to
the dummy model.
We can see that as expected the dummy
regressor achieves an r squared
score of 0.
Since it always makes a constant
prediction without looking at the output.
In this instance the linear model provides
only slightly better fit than the dummy
regressor, according to both mean
squared error and the r2_score.
Aside from the strategy of always
predicting the mean of the training target
values, you could also create some other
flavors of dummy regressors that always
predict the median of the training target
values, or a particular quantile of
those values, or a specific custom
constant value that you provide.
Although regression typically has simpler
evaluation needs than classification,
it does pay to double check to make sure
the evaluation metric you choose for
a regression problem does
penalize errors in a way
that reflects the consequences
of those errors for
the business, organizational, or
user needs of your application.